---
layout: post
title: SSH tips
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

Happy Labourday! Today I share some tips for a happy life with SSH.

<!--more-->

### TL;DR

Hi world!

I wish everyone is safe and goes through this generation challenge.

I remember the same day last year I was wandering in a coffeeshop to write a blog.

So far I have stay home almost 90% of my time, the Covid-19 pandemic has built up a good habit to save more. 

The blog I wrote last year about the [ant philosophy][1], I found it motivated me a lot.

  [1]: /posts/ant-philosophy-2018-05-01

I think the current period could be the winter time which means the best thing todo is do nothing and wait until it is
over.

However, I believe it is opportunity for me to learn new things. The costly time spending for travel used to be the top
excuse for not able to do something after work, it is no more an excuse. Eating food outside makes it difficult to build
a healthy diet habit is no more a valid excuse too. All of my excuses are no longer valid, so it is the best time to
fill up all the gaps in my knowledge, learn new skills, build up good habit and create more value products to the world.

# SSH tips

The post today is about some ssh tips that I have learnt while doing some infrastructure works. The tips isn't new, and
you may know them before.

## Forward key to host

### Why we need it?

Your remove server may need to access to other servers to perform some kind of operation.
The operation can be done through `git` protocol like cloning the project from Github. It may connect to other servers
to run a shell script through `ssh` protocol.

The most common way to enable these operations is to config the ssh key to the target servers. It sounds simple as all
of us have done many times.

However, managing the ssh key across multiple servers is quite troublesome, especially when the key is changed or
deleted.

Another way to allow these operations is to use `ForwardAgent`. When performing a connection to a server, the connection
simply forward all keys in the ssh-agent to the target host, the target host now has all the keys and hence is able to
authenticate with other servers with the keys forwarding.

### How to do it?

For instance, I use my Macbook to connect to the **server A**.

The **server A** doesn't have any key installed.

My Macbook uses **key 1** to connect to server A, and **key 2** to authorize with Github.

When I open a ssh connection to server A with `ForwardAgent`, both **key 1** and **key 2** are forwarded to the **server
A**

1. Ensure the key 1 is added to the Macbook ssh-agent

    ssh-add -l

  The output should be something like

    4096 SHA256:Kxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx  key1@email.com (RSA)
    4096 SHA256:Kxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx  key2@email.com (RSA)

  You can also call `ssh-add -L` (uppercase L) to get the full key.

1. Connect to server with the `ForwardAgent` argument passing to the command directly

    ssh -o ForwardAgent=yes user@serverA

  After login to **server A**, you can use the same command `ssh-add -l` to verify if the keys are forwared correctly

1. Config the connection in `~/.ssh/config` file

  Open the `~/.ssh/config` file and add the config like below

    Host server_A
      HostName server_A_ip_address
      User user
      IdentityFile <pathto>/key1
      ForwardAgent yes

**Tips:**

  - If your ssh-agent is somehow broken, you can restart it by this command: `eval $(ssh-agent) > /dev/null`
  - Generate long ssh keys to make it more secure
 
## Tired of typing private key's password

### Why we need it?

As a general practice, we should set a password for each ssh key. However, keep track of 
all of key's passwords is not an easy job.
 
Luckily ssh allows to store the keychain in Keychain.
The implementation and the key loading mechanism  is slightly different between the 2 operating systems

In MacOS, the agent will store the password in KeyChain.
In linux, you may have to setup the keyring if the distro doesn't include the keyring by default, 
The gnome key ring, which comes by default in Linux distro that uses Gnome. If you are using these distro, for example,
Ubuntu, then you can carefree about this stuff.

In MacOS, to retreive the passphrase from keychain or store the passphrase to keychain, we add option `-K` to the ssh
command.
  
There is a config line that you can put in your ssh config as well, which only works on MacOs

    UseKeyChain yes

To load the key to agents, you can add this config

    AddKeysToAgent yes

Checkout for the full document in the [Apple document][3]

This may not work as my machine doesn't take the argument and load my ssh key. Therefore I wrote a simple bash script to
load the ssh keys to the agent
  
    #!/bin/bash

    keys=(key1 key2 key3)
    key_dir=$HOME/.ssh

    for key in "${keys[@]}"; do
      ssh-add -K $key_dir/$key
    done

    echo "All keys are added."

## Connect through bastion host

### Why we need it?

Usually your server is in a private internet that your machine can't access directly to. To do so require a backdoor
server that is open to the internet. 

The terms to call the backdoor server is bastion host. Although AWS isn't the inventor of the term, I found their
definition about bastion host is the most concise to me:

> a server whose purpose is to provide access to a private network from an external network,
such as the Internet. Because of its exposure to potential attack, a bastion host must minimize the chances of penetration

Those servers have no connection in and out to the internet. To access the internet from those servers, they have to route their request through a nat gateway
or a instance in the public internet, which can be the bastion host as well. That behavior can be setup easily I
believe from your favorite cloud console.

To connect to those servers from the local machine, it needs to go through the bastion host.

As a new solution come with new problem, where should we store the ssh key?
Should it stored in the bastion host or in the local machine.

In any case, we need 2 ssh keys, 1 to connect to the bastion host and 1 to connect to the server in the private cloud.
Technically we can share the same key but it increases the risk to the system.

- We can store both ssh keys in your local machine, by enabling the forward agent to the bastion host
- Or we only store the key to access to bastion host on the local machine, the key to the private server are stored in
  the bastion host 

I would say the second option is better. In realize, we may put more than 1 server in the private network, hence there
is more ssh keys to store in local machine. I would be a bit of paranoid, but saving all of the keys in my laptop isn't
a safe choice because there can be a chance I lost my laptop or it stops working tomorrow. Another situation is when I 
share the access for other people like your team mates, if I store all the keys in laptop then I have to copy all of
them to my team mates laptop as well. One key to acces to the bastion host seems to be the best choice to me, let the
bastion stores other ssh keys.

### How to do it?

Add this configuration to your `~/.ssh/config`

    Host BastionHost
      Hostname bastionhost_address
      User user
      Port port
      IdentityFile key2

    Host serverB
      HostName serverB_address
      User user
      Port 22
      ProxyCommand ssh BastionHst -W %h:%p


The option -W is there to (from `man ssh`):

> -W host:port
     Requests that standard input and output on the client be forwarded to host on port over the secure channel.  Implies -N, -T, ExitOnForwardFailure and ClearAllForwardings,
     though these can be overridden in the configuration file or using -o command line options.


As you may notice there is no IdentityFile config on the `serverB`, the connection will use the configuration for server
B from the bastion host.

There are alternative solution as if your openssh isn't support forwarding input and output or when we want to override
the config of the bastion host, here it [an awesome tutorial][4] with example how to do it using `netcat`, check it out!

That is not the end of this tips yet. Sometimes, you want to give your team mates a little or no access to the bastion
host, and less privilege login user to the private servers through bastion hosts.

The common way is to setup different user in bastion host, this user from the bastion host can access to the private
servers through a less privilege user. This user in the bastion host holds the ssh key to login to private servers
by a certain login and hence can't switch to other login. 

Two users in the bastion server can share the same ssh key. It is because the first round of authenticate is the most
important round, others are just to fulfil the protocol. However, to manage the authorization, it is a good practice to
use different ssh key for each.

Back to the first approach, some team culture may not want user to stop in the bastion host and use the resource there,
because it is shared between all of the servers and team.

This tips may frustrate your colleagues a bit.

First, you have to override the path in `~/.bashrc` in the less privilege user in the bastion host
  
    export PATH=""

Next, disable the write permission in the home folder
    
    sudo chmod -R 555 ~/home/user_name  

Last, disable write and execute permission of .bashrc and .bash_logout
  
    sudo chmod 444 ~/home/user_name/.bashrc
    sudo chmod 444 ~/home/user_name/.bash_logout

Next time anyone login with this user to the bastion host will not be able to do anything.

If the team is small the team doesn't have bandwidth to spend much effort on setup and maintain the infratructure,
the same user is used in the bastion server, but use different keys for each login to the private servers.
This approach allows user to login to the bastion host and from there decide which server they want to jump and with
what login credential.

## Running command through ssh

Just take a look at this example 

    ssh -t api-server "sudo su - <deploy_user> -c 'cd /var/www/<app_name>/current && bin/rails console'"

Technically you can run any command in your server. The option `-t` is there to allow interact with the rails console
after open, without this option, the ssh just close after running the command.

That is it for the day, hope it useful to someone.

Thanks for reading.

  [1] https://kevintran.ninja/posts/ant-philosophy-2018-05-01
  [2] https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/GNOME/Keyring 
  [3] https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/technotes/tn2449/_index.html
  [4] https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/linux-unix-ssh-proxycommand-passing-through-one-host-gateway-server/
